# merb-core

This is the 1.2 development branch of merb-core, providing core functionality
for fast, simple, and powerful (web) application development.

## Changes in 1.2

Check the [1.2 wiki page](https://github.com/merb/merb/wiki/release-120)
for changes.

## Goals of this release

  * Bring framework and application development up to speed with current
    versions of supporting frameworks like Rack and RSpec.
  * User documentation
  * Integrate "interesting" functionality, e.g., CSRF protection.
  * Simplify the API further

## Using Merb

To familiarize yourself with how a merb-core application might look, 
use merb-gen to generate a few apps:

    $ gem install merb-gen       # merb-gen is a gem of its own
    $ merb-gen app myapp         # merb stack app, assuming you are using DM and RSpec

The only option you can use with stack is `--template_engine=(erb|haml)`.
Default is erb.

    $ merb-gen core myapp        # a "regular" app without any predefined dependencies

Options available:

    --orm=datamapper
    --orm=sequel
    --orm=activerecord

Default is no ORM.

    --testing_framework=rspec
    --testing_framework=test_unit

Default is rspec.

    --template_enging=erb
    --template_enging=haml       # requires the "merb-haml" gem

Default is erb.

    $ merb-gen flat myapp        # a flattened app: one file and directory for views

Options are same as for "regular" app.

    $ merb-gen very_flat myapp   # a single-file app

Options are same as for "regular" app.
