# Documentation

Merb switches YARD for generated documentation. Inside comments, use
Markdown syntax.

The main reason behind the switch from RDoc/SimpleMarktup is that the
plain RDoc does not allow semantic documentation, but relies on manual
formatting.

## Formatting Guidelines

Set *inline code* in backticks (\`code\`).

If you need *subheadings* inside comment blocks, use 4th level headings
indicated by four hash marks (`####`).

Markdown is currently lacking *definition lists.* As a workaround, you can
use this construct:

    * **Item name:** Item description
      even over several lines.

## Details
Multiple types of elements can carry documentation:

* Modules
* Classes
  * Attributes
  * Methods

### Modules

Module documentation should show the "big picture". Give examples and link
to relevant details.

### Classes

Class documentation should be on par with module documentation, again
giving broad examples and references.

### Attributes and Methods

Method documentation should at least provide a complete rundown of
parameter semantics and the return type. Additionally, at least a short
introductory sentence should be provided.

For type specification, use the syntax shown in the YARD documentation:

* A list of types, e.g.
      @param [String, Hash] ...
* Container types with specific contents
      @param [Array<String>]
* Types responding to certain methods
      @param [#to_s]
* Combinations
      @param [Fixnum, #to_sym, nil]

Additionally, methods should carry an @api tag to describe visibility and
stability. There are three "layers":

* **@api public:** Public APIs are guaranteed to be stable at least until
  the next major release.
* **@api plugin:** Those interfaces are "semi-stable". They are meant to
  expose internals that might be interesting to plugin developers who need
  to extend Merb, but not for everyday application development. In short,
  they are unlikely to change, but keep track of where you are using them.
* **@api private:** Volatile internal interfaces. Do not use them.

An example for a well-documented method:

    # Render the specified item, with the specified options.
    #
    # #### Alternatives
    # If you pass a Hash as the first parameter, it will be moved to
    # opts and "thing" will be the current action
    #
    # @todo Docs: Use the @overload tag to describe the alternative
    #   syntax?
    #
    # @param [String, Symbol, nil] thing The thing to render. This will
    #   default to the current action.
    # @param [Hash] opts An options hash.
    # @option opts [Symbol] :format
    #   A registered mime-type format
    # @option opts [String] :template
    #   The path to the template relative to the template root
    # @option opts [#to_i] :status
    #   The status to send to the client. Typically, this would
    #   be an integer (200), or a Merb status code (Accepted)
    # @option opts [#to_s] :layout
    #   A layout to use instead of the default. This should be
    #   relative to the layout root. By default, the layout will
    #   be either the controller_name or application. If you
    #   want to use an alternative content-type than the one
    #   that the base template was rendered as, you will need
    #   to do `:layout => "foo.#{content_type}"` (e.g. `foo.json`)
    #
    # @return [String] The rendered template, including layout, if
    #   appropriate.
    #
    # @raise [TemplateNotFound] There is no template for the specified
    #   location.
    #
    # @example Redirect to index if instance is not found:
    #     def show(:id)
    #        # assume the model instance is supposed to be in @pet
    #        return render(:index, {:status => 200}) if @pet.nil?
    #        render
    #     end
    #
    # @api public
    def render(thing = nil, opts = {})
      # <snip>
    end

## Additional information

If you want to document things outside the source files, put
markdown-formatted files named like `readable_filename.mkd` inside a
"`docs`" subdirectory of the gem you are documenting. Those files will
be picked up during generation.
